Okay.
This is video from moments ago.
You can see rockets being fired from Gaza
Our reporter
Nic Robertson
is just over the border from Gaza
in Israel. Inside the road.
Nic, why don't you tell us
what you're seeing
Yeah,
we are seeing a massive barrage of
Iron Dome intercepts in the sky.
Here.
You can just make out the tiny
puffs of white smoke in the sky.
Each one of those puffs
is an intercept of an Iron Dome defensive
missile system taking down Hamas rockets.
And you can see over my shoulder
that some of the
traces of the rockets themselves
that have been fired through the sky,
it looks as if those
those iron domes were stopping
the rockets going to the two
big Israeli towns along the coast.
There
Ashkelon with the power station and ash.
Ashdod further up the coast there
you could see the missiles coming out
from the Iron Dome
and intercepting
with the rockets in the sky.
So literally in the last
in less than an hour
from here,
there's been attacks,
missile attacks,
Hamas missile
attacks on on this town start.
There's been
missile attacks on Tel Aviv as well.
We saw those rockets going out
and there have been these rocket missile
attacks on Ashkelon and Ashdod,
it appears.
So at this moment.
This afternoon, Hamas is clearly showing
it's got firepower left.
It's got the longer-range
weapons
that it was always difficult
for it to produce.
They can reach as far as central Israel.
It's got the shorter range ones
that can come in here
and the mid-range ones
that can reach up along the coast.
So Hamas is showing that
despite all the strikes on it so far,
it has the capability
and the reserves of rockets to continue
firing out.
Nic Robertson, stand by if you can.
And it is safe.
I just want to give people a sense
of where you are.
You can see in red here is Gaza.
If we can put it back up there.
This is enrolled right here.
This is where Nic Robertson is
just over the border from Gaza.
He could hear Iron Dome,
that is Israeli air
defense missiles
being shot up into the sky.
To get rockets
that were being fired from Gaza.
And as Nic was explaining here,
some of the targets
of these rocket attacks
from Gaza appear to be Ashkelon
and Ashdod.
Here, Israeli cities
right on the Mediterranean coast.
Nic Robertson, again, back to you.
How constant is this
and do you feel like
you're hearing more outgoing?
Can you distinguish
between the outgoing from Gaza
and the air intercepts from Israel?
Yes, the outgoing from
Gaza, you see,
because there's the
the white trailers behind the rockets.
So you see them
particularly the longer-range ones.
At night,
you see them outgoing
because of sort of the orange burn,
a trail on the back of the rocket
and the intercepts start out as well.
But you can actually I can
I can
I have a rough idea
of their firing positions now
because you see them come up,
you see a little red
dot flying through the sky
and then it explodes
into a puff of white smoke.
You hear the percussion from it
when it intercepts with that rocket.
So the dynamics of how this works.
We have a very good vantage point here.
All right, Nic Robertson, stand by.
You're in Surratt.
Let's go over to Clarissa Ward.
We can see her shot up right now.
Clarissa, if you can hear us.
You're in Ashkelon, Also, rockets firing.
What are you experiencing
Yes.
Okay.
We had
seen on
the Hamas Telegram channel
that they were warning
that there was going to be
some kind of a threat
that they told people to leave.
By 5 p.m.,
we got here literally it's 5 minutes
to five. Air raid sirens start.
I was there.
I should just say
sirens started going off
We were immediately
dragged into the bunker
by another person here and massive
amount of missiles
just slamming in all around.
We also heard hi, Fred.
We also heard there's
other journalists here as well.
Obviously,
we also heard the Iron Dome intercepting
some of them.
You can
actually smell
the smell of the explosives
coming from
some of the balconies out there.
So unclear at the moment
how many of these rockets
may have made impact
or what
the damage may be,
what the casualty rate may be.
But certainly
a lot of rockets were fired.
The hotel was
a relatively secure location.
Okay.
We're hearing more sirens coming again.
So I'm just going to move
away from the window
and
the other
shelters over there.
Do we want to go towards the shelter?
Well, let's just say sorry.
So the bunker the bunker is this way
we've moved this place
just moving into this bunker here.
This is actually where we were
when the last barrage came in as well.
Every floor of the hotel has a bunker
like this. Yeah.
You can hear some activity out there.
It's not anything like it was
on that previous round.
I don't know
if you're picking up on that.
That sounds like maybe interceptions.
It's difficult to know,
but that's what it sounds like.
But it's a bit quieter now.
We're trying also
to send in
some video that we
captured from inside the bunker
when the first round of rockets went off.
And
but yeah,
just waiting to see and get some clarity.
Yeah.
Clarissa, what we're showing,
I want to give viewers
some point of reference here.
You're in Ashkelon.
You've got incoming.
You guys are in a bunker right now.
Stay there with me, if you will.
Clarissa, on the other
side of your screen,
everyone, what you're
where you can also see
is to rot
where there is incoming as well.
John's over at the wall
and he can show in relation
to what these two areas
that we're talking about.
As we go
back, Clarissa, stick with me
as we go back to Nic Robertson.
Nic, you're seeing incoming as well.
Talk us through it.
So the
vantage point that
we have here,
we can see the rockets
coming out of Gaza.
I can see those rockets coming up.
Then there were the intercepts
and that's
when Clarissa was getting the warning
to go to the bunker.
The sirens were picking it up.
Clarissa is over there in Ashkelon, close
to those power station chimneys.
The three big chimneys
you see on the horizon.
That's where she is.
And I'm just sort of going to duck down,
I suppose,
here to see that
so that John can get a better view.
So you see the rockets
come up
where John's pointing the camera
now out of Gaza,
and then they're flying up into the sky
and being picked up by the Iron Dome
as I was flying towards
Ashkelon, where where Clarissa is.
And then the Iron Dome
kicks off and starts intercepting them.
And that's the
what was the white puffs of smoke?
So what Clarissa has experienced
at the end of those missiles,
we have a position
where we can see the missiles going out
and being intercepted
some of them being intercepted
on their way to where she is.
And just before those missiles took off.
There were fighter
jets in the air as well.
And a couple of explosions from Gaza.
So it kind of gave the impression
that the fighters had gone
up, the fighter
jets had gone up to try to target
Hamas, firing those rockets out of here.
Another
fighter jet in the in the sky just now.
I can't see it.
But typically when when Hamas comes out
to fire their rockets,
typically the jets come on station here
and we'll look for targets.
Look for those Hamas
Hamas militants with their rockets.
They're firing positions
to take them out. This is a
this is a very this view from here
gives you a very strong understanding
of the dynamic of this battle.